.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt WABT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wabt
.Nd WebAssembly Binary Toolkit
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm wabt
.Cm subcommand
.Op Ar args ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a single-binary CLI that consolidates the WebAssembly Binary Toolkit
into one executable with subcommands, in the style of
.Xr wasm-tools 1
and
.Xr zig 1 .
.Pp
The available subcommands are:
.Bl -tag -width "json-from-wast"
.It Cm parse
Translate WebAssembly text format
.Pq .wat
to a wasm binary.
Replaces the previous
.Sy wat2wasm
binary.
.It Cm print
Print a wasm binary as WebAssembly text format.
Replaces the previous
.Sy wasm2wat
binary.
.It Cm validate
Validate a WebAssembly binary.
Replaces the previous
.Sy wasm-validate
binary.
.It Cm objdump
Dump information about sections in a WebAssembly binary.
Replaces the previous
.Sy wasm-objdump
binary.
.It Cm strip
Strip custom sections from a WebAssembly binary.
Replaces the previous
.Sy wasm-strip
binary.
.It Cm json-from-wast
Convert a
.Pa *.wast
spec test into a
.Pa *.json
file and associated
.Pa *.wasm
binaries.
Replaces the previous
.Sy wast2json
binary.
.It Cm decompile
Decompile a wasm binary into readable C-like pseudo-code.
Replaces the previous
.Sy wasm-decompile
binary.
.It Cm stats
Print module statistics for a wasm binary.
Replaces the previous
.Sy wasm-stats
binary.
.It Cm desugar
Parse and re-emit WebAssembly text format
.Pq removes syntactic sugar .
Replaces the previous
.Sy wat-desugar
binary.
.It Cm spectest
Run a WebAssembly spec test
.Pq Pa .wast .
Replaces the previous
.Sy spectest-interp
binary.
.It Cm version
Print the wabt version on stdout and exit.
.It Cm help Op Ar subcommand
Print top-level help, or help for a specific subcommand.
.El
.Sh SUBCOMMAND OPTIONS
Most subcommands accept the following options where they are meaningful:
.Bl -tag -width "-o, --output FILE"
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Print subcommand-specific help on stdout and exit.
.It Fl o , Fl Fl output Ar file
Write output to
.Ar file
instead of the default location
.Pq usually stdout, or a derived path next to the input .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Translate
.Pa test.wat
to
.Pa test.wasm :
.Pp
.Dl $ wabt parse test.wat
.Pp
Print a wasm binary as text:
.Pp
.Dl $ wabt print test.wasm
.Pp
Validate a wasm binary:
.Pp
.Dl $ wabt validate test.wasm
.Pp
Run a spec test:
.Pp
.Dl $ wabt spectest third_party/testsuite/i32.wast
.Pp
Print version:
.Pp
.Dl $ wabt version
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wasm-tools 1
.Sh BUGS
If you find a bug, please report it at
.br
.Lk https://github.com/cataggar/wabt/issues .
